---
layout: post
title: Make for a Better World
subtitle: Towards a robust compilation process
tags: [computer]
comments: true
author: Hongyang Zhou
---

# GNU Make

There are many different types of make system, among which the most famous one is GNU make.
`make` is a tool designed for compiling programs into executables, but it also can be used for executing consecutive commands which have internal dependencies.
The essense of `make` is _dependency_: it aims at figuring out the dependencies in your workflow with minimal effort.
To some extent, I usually think of it as shell scripts with dependency control.

To take advantage of this powerful tool, we need a basic understanding of the wildcard and the dependency logic.
When you first start with Makefiles, you would tend to explicit state every task as do on command line.
However, this is exactly the redundancy `make` wants to free you from.
Take a look at [Makefile in Practice](http://nuclear.mutantstargoat.com/articles/make/#a-makefile-for-99-of-your-programs), which is a great introduction to most commonly used features.

# CMake

Although `make` has been very popular for compiling programs on a Unix-like system, it certainly cannot do everything alone.
People who write code on multiple different platforms became annoyed by the fact that they need to create different Makefiles for different platforms, given it Linux, Mac, or Windows.
This is where Kitware's CMake comes into play.
In essence, `cmake` is a cross-platform tool for generating Makefiles.
It also adds the capability of testing and deploying which may often be better than the `make` equivalence.

When you automate multiple things together, magic can happen.

A basic tutorial on CMake can be found [here](http://derekmolloy.ie/hello-world-introductions-to-cmake/).[^1]
For some latest features, it would be better to check the [official website](https://cmake.org/).

[^1]: Even better than the official tutorial!
